The next concept I'd like to move
on to is talking about the Cascade.
And you're gonna find some of this
information to be a little bit surprising
and a little bit unpredictable,
that's why we talked about inheritance and
specificity first.
Inheritance and specificity are subsets
parts of the Cascade parts of figuring out
how we are going to assign specific styles
to a given selector within our document.
And the interplay between these and the
Cascade is more in depth than you would
expect in terms of just what is the order
that things are being presented.
So let's get into that a little bit.
If you look up the cascade on MDN,
they are going to describe
it in the following way.
So we'll go through this in a little bit
of detail and then I'll shorten it up for
you so it's a little easier to remember.
So first of all, the very first thing that
you wanna do is go through and identify
all of the possible styles that will apply
to whatever it is that you're analyzing.
You need to look in media queries,
you need to look in at supports statements
those are the ones that will
if it supports a given.
Structure and
CSS then execute these styles,
you need to look at those you need
to look at something called layers.
Layers are brand new in CSS, I'm going
to talk about them extensively here in
a moment but you may have
layers inside of your CSS, and
we need to take a look inside of those for
styles as well.
Then what we're going to do is identify
the origins of all the styles that apply
to that particular selection, we have to
look at their levels of importance and
we need to order them accordingly.
So that would include things like
where are our browser style sheets,
usually on our world that's
browser style sheets but
it could be user agents we wanna take a
look at user style sheets remember again.
We may have some users that want to assign
their own style sheets to webpages to help
them make them more readable.
We have author style sheets,
those come from multiple places.
External style sheets,
those are the separate documents we
typically work with in web development.
We may also have styles that appear
in the head of the document,
those are extra sorry.
Those are embedded or
their internal documents and
then we also have inline Styles as well
and we'll take a look at all of those.
Then we need to sort those styles
again and to clear who wins based on
specificity or remember inherited
plays into that as well.
And then finally,
if the styles are of equal specificity,
then the one that comes later wins.
So usually, when we think of the cascade,
we only think of that last one.
[LAUGH], the one that comes later wins,
as you can see,
there's actually a whole lot
more that comes before that.
And again, this leads to some of those
bugs that you're trying to debug,
and you cannot understand
why it doesn't work